hey mrs. presto Walker in the game of
Tetris there are seven pieces each made
up of four square units the shapes are
called tetrominoes in mathematical
literature can you use one of each piece
to form a seven by four rectangle if so
find away if not prove why it's
impossible
I think dr. Perkins for sending me this
delightful problem can you figure it out
give this problem a try and when you're
ready keep watching the video for a
solution the answer is that it's
impossible and we will demonstrate the
solution by using a graph colouring
consider a seven by four rectangular
grid color the squares alternately light
and dark like a checkerboard this is one
way you could color the squares but this
is not the only way you could actually
color the squares in another pattern but
in either case there are an equal number
of 14 light squares and 14 dark squares
now let's consider a coloring of the
tetrominoes first let's consider the
following six tetrominoes let's imagine
coloring the squares alternately light
and dark like a checkerboard this is one
way you could color each piece but
there's another way that you could color
the pieces but in either case each piece
always has an equal number of two light
squares in two dark squares these six
pieces always have 12 light squares and
twelve dark squares
now let's consider the tea tetromino
what happens when we color it like a
checkerboard here's one way you could
color it and here's another way the tea
tetromino always has two more squares of
one color either it has one light square
and three dark squares or it has three
light squares and one dark square so if
we could make a seven by four rectangle
using one of each piece then the seven
tetrominoes would combine for total of
fourteen light squares and fourteen dark
squares but six of the tetrominoes
always have the same number of light and
dark squares for total of twelve light
squares and twelve dark squares the
teach at Rama know however creates an
asymmetry it either has three light
squares and one dark square or it has
three dark squares and one light square
using one of each piece we will either
have a total of 15 light squares and 13
dark squares or a total of 15 dark
squares and thirteen light squares the
seven pieces can never combine to have
exactly fourteen light squares and
fourteen dark squares thus it is
impossible for them to form a seven by
four rectangle did you figure it out
thanks for watching this video please
subscribe to my channel I make videos on
math you can catch me on my blog mind
your decisions if you like this video
you can check out my books which are
listed in the video description and you
can support me on patreon if you have a
math topic you can email me brush at
mind your decisions calm